## Description

The PDE-Extraction repository contains the data and code used to produce the results from the study <insert: link to #paper-pde>. We apply [PDE-FIND ](https://github.com/snagcliffs/PDE-FIND) (Rudy, Samuel H., et al. "Data-driven discovery of partial differential equations." Science Advances 3.4 (2017): e1602614.) to methyl ammonium lead iodide perovskite film degradation data.

## About

Many physical and chemical processes in materials research can be described by underlying differential equations (DEs). Typically, these DEs are inferred using a first-principles or Edisonian trial-and-error approach. However, this approach is challenging with more complex systems because of the multiplicity of possible terms that can be incorporated into DEs. In this study, we apply scientific ML — a blend of traditional scientific mechanistic modeling (differential equations) with machine learning methodologies — to identify differential equations governing the degradation of methylammonium lead iodide perovskite (MAPI), a material with known instability under environmental stress – automatically from experimental data. We find that the underlying DE governing MAPI degradation is described minimally with three terms (specifically, a second-order polynomial), and not a simple single-order reaction (i.e. 0th, 1st, or 2nd-order reaction). This DE, corresponding to the Verhulst logistic function, describes reaction kinetics analogous in functional form to autocatalytic or self-propagating reactions and population growth. The algorithm chooses this equation as opposed to the Avrami equation, corresponding to diffusion-limited nucleation and growth phenomena. We find that the same minimal DE can be used to describe perovskite degradation across a temperature range from 35°C to 85°C. Our results do not appear robust to experimental luck-of-the-draw variance, indicating that reducing experiment variance in our data is necessary to utilize this method. To isolate the robustness to noise, we apply Scientific ML to simulated data; it succeeds at identifying the differential equation when up to 5% Gaussian noise is added to simulated data. However, at this noise level, the relative error in the identified coefficients is high, approximately 80%. At above 5% noise, the algorithm does not find the underlying dynamics. This study demonstrates the application of scientific ML in practical materials science systems, highlighting the promise and challenges associated with ML-aided scientific discovery.Many physical and chemical processes in materials research can be described by underlying differential equations (DEs). Typically, these DEs are inferred using a first-principles or Edisonian trial-and-error approach. However, this approach is challenging with more complex systems because of the multiplicity of possible terms that can be incorporated into DEs. In this study, we apply scientific ML — a blend of traditional scientific mechanistic modeling (differential equations) with machine learning methodologies — to identify differential equations governing the degradation of methylammonium lead iodide perovskite (MAPI), a material with known instability under environmental stress – automatically from experimental data. We find that the underlying DE governing MAPI degradation is described minimally with three terms (specifically, a second-order polynomial), and not a simple single-order reaction (i.e. 0th, 1st, or 2nd-order reaction). This DE, corresponding to the Verhulst logistic function, describes reaction kinetics analogous in functional form to autocatalytic or self-propagating reactions and population growth. The algorithm chooses this equation as opposed to the Avrami equation, corresponding to diffusion-limited nucleation and growth phenomena. We find that the same minimal DE can be used to describe perovskite degradation across a temperature range from 35°C to 85°C. Our results do not appear robust to experimental luck-of-the-draw variance, indicating that reducing experiment variance in our data is necessary to utilize this method. To isolate the robustness to noise, we apply Scientific ML to simulated data; it succeeds at identifying the differential equation when up to 5% Gaussian noise is added to simulated data. However, at this noise level, the relative error in the identified coefficients is high, approximately 80%. At above 5% noise, the algorithm does not find the underlying dynamics. This study demonstrates the application of scientific ML in practical materials science systems, highlighting the promise and challenges associated with ML-aided scientific discovery.